Technical Project Report: Intelligent Street Lamp Management System

Author: [Your Name]
Date: July 3, 2026


1. Project Introduction

Street lamps are an important part of city life. They keep roads bright at
night so people can walk and drive safely. However, many cities still use old
control methods for their street lamps. Workers have to turn them on and off by
hand, or use simple timers that do not check the real light level. This wastes
a lot of electricity. For example, lamps may stay on during sunny hours or turn
off too early on cloudy days.

This project builds a smart street lamp management system using IoT (Internet
of Things) technology. The system lets users control street lamps from a web
browser. Users can check the status of each lamp in real time, turn lamps on or
off, collect light data from sensors, and view charts of past data. The system
also has an AI chatbot to answer users' questions about how to use it.

This report describes the whole process of building this system — from
requirements to design, testing, and final results. The system uses simulated
hardware for testing instead of real devices.


2. Requirement Analysis

The system has eight main functional requirements:

(1) Device List: Show all street lamps with their name, location, status
    (online or offline), and current state (on or off).

(2) Single Lamp Control: Turn one lamp on or off from the web page.

(3) Batch Control: Turn many lamps on or off at the same time.

(4) Light Data Collection: Receive light sensor data from each lamp and save
    it to the database.

(5) History Query: Let users search past light data and show it as a line
    chart.

(6) Control Logs: Record every control action — who did what and when.

(7) Threshold Management: Set a light level for automatic control. When the
    environment light falls below the threshold, the lamp turns on.

(8) AI Q&A: An AI chatbot helps users learn about the system.

For non-functional requirements, the system should respond quickly (most API
requests under 100 milliseconds), be easy to use, and handle errors without
crashing.


3. Design and Implementation

3.1 Architecture

The system has four layers:

    Frontend (Vue 3) --> Backend (Express + TypeScript) --> MySQL Database
                                  |
                                  v
                            MQTT Broker
                                  |
                                  v
                         Hardware (Street Lamps)

The frontend sends HTTP requests to the backend. The backend reads or writes
data in MySQL. To control a lamp, the backend sends an MQTT message through
the broker to the hardware device.

3.2 Technology Stack

We chose Vue 3 for the frontend because it is easy to learn and has good
performance. It uses a component-based structure, which makes the code easy to
maintain. ECharts is used to draw line charts for light data over time.

Express was chosen because it is a popular Node.js framework with many
tutorials and community support. TypeScript helps catch errors before running
the code by checking data types.

MQTT was chosen because it is the standard IoT protocol. Unlike HTTP, which
sends large messages, MQTT uses very little network bandwidth. This is
important for IoT devices that may have limited power and network.

The database uses MySQL to store three kinds of data: device information (name,
location, status), light sensor readings (light level and timestamp), and
control logs (who controlled which lamp and when).

3.3 Frontend Design

The frontend has eight pages. The main page shows a dashboard with device
status cards and a 7-day light trend chart. The control page lets users turn
lamps on or off one by one, or select multiple lamps for batch control. The
history page shows light data as a line chart with a date picker. Each lamp
also supports two working modes: "auto" mode where the lamp decides when to
turn on by itself, and "manual" mode where the user makes all decisions.

3.4 API Design

The system has 11 API endpoints. All use a standard response format:
{ "code": 200, "message": "success", "data": {...} }.

The main APIs are:
  - GET /api/devices — list all devices
  - POST /api/devices/:id/control — turn a lamp on or off
  - POST /api/devices/batch-control — control multiple lamps
  - GET /api/devices/:id/light-history — get light data history
  - GET /api/health — check if the server is running

3.5 Key Implementation Detail

When the backend sends a control command to a lamp, it waits up to 10 seconds
for a response. If no response comes, the command is marked as "timeout." This
way the user always knows the result of their action. For batch control, all
commands are sent at the same time using Promise.all to save time.


4. Test Result and Analysis

We tested the system in five areas. The results are shown below:

    Test Area           Total   Passed   Pass Rate
    -----------------------------------------------
    Service Start          5        5       100%
    API Interface         11       11       100%
    MQTT Data Flow         6        6       100%
    Frontend Pages         9        8        89%
    Error Handling         6        6       100%
    -----------------------------------------------
    TOTAL                 37       36        97%

All API interfaces passed. Most simple requests finished in less than 50
milliseconds. Control commands took about 2 seconds because they need to wait
for a simulated hardware response from the MQTT broker.

We also tested error handling. For example, when we tried to control a device
that does not exist, the system returned a "404 not found" error. When we sent
an invalid command (not "on" or "off"), the system returned a "400 bad request"
error. In all six error test cases, the system behaved correctly and did not
crash.

Only one item failed: the alarm log page. It is marked as "coming soon" because
the backend alarm service was removed in the MVP version to keep things simple.
It will be completed in a later version. All core features work correctly, so
the system is stable enough for delivery.


5. Conclusion

This project successfully built a working smart street lamp system using IoT
technology. It has 11 APIs and a web frontend with 8 pages. Users can control
lamps remotely from a browser, view light data charts, manage device settings
like thresholds and modes, and ask questions to the AI chatbot.

The test pass rate was 97%, with all core APIs and MQTT data flows working
correctly. This shows the system is stable and ready for the next step.

The biggest challenge we faced was learning how MQTT works. MQTT uses a
publish-subscribe model, which is very different from the request-response
model of HTTP. We had to understand topics, subscriptions, and how to wait for
a response after publishing a command. Another challenge was designing the
timeout system — in the real world, IoT devices do not always respond, and
users should not wait forever.

For future work, we plan to do several things. First, add an alarm system that
automatically tells users when a lamp goes offline. Second, connect real
hardware devices and test the system outdoors. Third, add real user login with
passwords instead of the mock login we use now. Finally, build a mobile phone
app so users can control lamps from anywhere, not just from a computer. These
improvements will turn the current MVP into a product ready for real cities.


References

[1] Vue.js Documentation. https://vuejs.org/
[2] Express.js Documentation. https://expressjs.com/
[3] MQTT Specification. https://mqtt.org/
[4] MySQL Documentation. https://dev.mysql.com/
[5] ECharts Documentation. https://echarts.apache.org/
